{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\nouicompat{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}{\f1\fnil\fcharset0 Arial Black;}{\f2\fnil Calibri;}{\f3\fnil\fcharset1 Cambria Math;}}
{\colortbl ;\red102\green102\blue102;\red255\green0\blue0;\red72\green119\blue64;\red138\green51\blue49;\red0\green0\blue255;\red44\green44\blue126;\red168\green136\blue62;}
{\*\generator Riched20 10.0.19041}{\*\mmathPr\mmathFont3\mwrapIndent1440 }\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\qc\cf1\f0\fs20\lang12  Edited by @insopti /remastered, remade and improved version of @Ancel's tutorial for AMD users.  \cf2\b\f1\fs30 AMD\cf0  visible and hidden BIOS Setting Guide (Scewin)\par
\b0\f0\fs22\par
\b\i\fs30 DISCLAIMER\cf3\f2\fs28         \b0\i0\f0\fs22\lang1036                     \i\f2\fs28\lang12         \i0\f0\fs22\lang1036                    \i\f2\fs28\lang12         \i0\f0\fs22\lang1036                    \i\f2\fs28\lang12         \i0\f0\fs22\lang1036                    \i\f2\fs28\lang12         \i0\f0\fs22\lang1036                      \cf4\b\i\fs26\lang12 This guide is intended for AMD users who want to access both visible and hidden BIOS settings to optimize overall system performance and reduce latency. It explains how to disable several power-saving mechanisms, such as C-states, P-states, and other automatic power management features, in order to maintain consistent and maximum CPU performance. By also adjusting settings related to memory, cache, and integrated controllers, this guide allows users to fully leverage their hardware while minimizing performance fluctuations and system resource delays. The goal is to create a stable and responsive environment, particularly suited for gaming, overclocking, or applications requiring sustained high performance.\i0\fs28\par
Modifying BIOS settings carries inherent risks, such as system instability or hardware damage (especially if your system is already heating up a lot or with an unstable overclock). \par
Although the chosen settings are carefully selected and considered safe, results and system behavior may vary depending on your specific configuration and tunning.\par
\cf0\b0\fs20 # How to Reset BIOS by Removing CMOS Battery: {{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xey0us9Nyyo }}{\fldrslt{https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xey0us9Nyyo\ul0\cf0}}}}\f0\fs20  \cf4\b\fs28 Proceed with caution and at your own risk. We disclaim all responsibility for any issues that may arise. \cf0\i Do NOT apply all settings at once! Modify in small groups to avoid OS bricking or instability.\b0\i0\fs20\par
\fs22\par
\b\fs28 I SUGGEST TOO:\b0\fs22\par
\fs28  - Use XMP/ set XMP in BIOS (If you haven\rquote t ram oc\rquote ed). This ensures your memory runs at its rated speed and timings.\par
- use BIOS Mode "OC Genie Mode" (or equivalent), which applies overclocking-optimized settings for more aggressive performance by default.\par
- I also recommend manually tuning your CPU settings, including voltages and frequencies. This provides more precise control and potentially better performance, but requires reliable knowledge to avoid stability issues. I plan to prepare a detailed tutorial on manual CPU tuning in the near future.\fs20\par
\par
\fs22 My (insopti) Social: {{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK https://github.com/insovs }}{\fldrslt{https://github.com/insovs\ul0\cf0}}}}\f0\fs22\par
credits (Ancel) social: {{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK https://github.com/ancel1x }}{\fldrslt{https://github.com/ancel1x\ul0\cf0}}}}\f0\fs22\par

\pard\sa200\sl276\slmult1\par
\strike                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                     \strike0\fs34\par
# High Priority \f2\endash  \f0\lang1036 Good\f2\lang12  performance impact, generally safe.\par
\strike\f0\fs22                                                                                                                                                                                                   \strike0\fs24\par
\b\fs28 Primary Video Adapter = Ext Graphics (PEG)\b0\fs22                                                                                                                        #\cf3\b\i\fs24  Select this if you are using a dedicated GPU instead of the integrated graphics.\cf0\fs28       \b0\i0\fs24 Sets the primary video output to the PCIe/PEG graphics card, ensuring the system initializes and uses the external GPU for display and rendering.\par
\strike\fs22                                                                                                                                                                                                   \strike0\f2\par
\b\fs28 Global C-state Control = \cf6 Disabled\cf0\f0\lang1036  \f2\lang12  \b0\i\f0\lang1036 (\cf3\fs22 recommended\cf0\fs28 )\cf3\f2\lang12                        \i0\f0\fs22\lang1036                                    \i\f2\fs28\lang12         \i0\f0\fs22\lang1036     \cf0\i\f2\fs24\lang12 C-states \i0 are CPU power-saving modes that reduce voltage and frequency when the processor is idle. While useful for energy efficiency, they can introduce small delays when the CPU needs to wake back up to full speed. Disabling Global C-state Control keeps the CPU in a high-performance state at all times, eliminating those transition delays and improving real-time responsiveness.\par
\strike\f0\fs22                                                                                                                                                                                                   \strike0\f2\par
\b\fs28 DF Cstates = \cf6 Disabled\cf0\f0\lang1036   \b0\i (\cf3\fs22 recommended\cf0\fs28 )\cf3\f2\lang12  \f0\lang1036   \f2\lang12                       \i0\f0\fs22\lang1036                                    \i\f2\fs28\lang12         \i0\f0\fs22\lang1036     \cf0\f2\fs24\lang12 Disables \i Data Fabric C-States\i0 , keeping interconnect links between CPU cores, memory controller, and other components active at all times. This reduces latency for memory and cache access but increases idle power consumption. If set to Auto, it synchronizes with the Global C-State setting.\par
\strike\f0\fs22                                                                                                                                                                                                   \strike0\f2\par
\b\fs28 ECO Mode = \cf6 Disabled\cf0\f0\lang1036   \b0\i (\cf3\fs22 recommended\cf0\fs28 )\cf3\f2\lang12               \f0\lang1036   \f2\lang12          \i0\f0\fs22\lang1036                                    \i\f2\fs28\lang12         \i0\f0\fs22\lang1036     \cf0\f2\fs24\lang12 Disables th\f0\lang1036 e\f2\lang12  power-saving profile that can limit CPU or SoC performance to conserve energy. Turning it off allows the system to operate at its maximum performance potential at all times.\par
\strike\f0\fs22                                                                                                                                                                                                   \strike0\f2\par
\b\fs28 SVM Mode = \cf6 Disabled\cf0\f0\lang1036   \b0\i (\cf3\fs22 recommended\cf0\fs28 )\cf3\f2\lang12                        \i0\f0\fs22\lang1036                                    \i\f2\fs28\lang12         \i0\f0\fs22\lang1036     \cf0\f2\fs24\lang12 Disables AMD Secure Virtual Machine (virtualization) for reduced CPU overhead unless virtualization is required.\f0\lang1036  AMD Secure Virtual Machine (SVM), the hardware virtualization feature that allows running multiple operating systems simultaneously using virtual machines. Disabling SVM reduces CPU overhead and slightly improves single-threaded performance, since the processor no longer needs to manage virtualization extensions. \i Keep it enabled only if you plan to use virtualization software such as VMware, VirtualBox, or Hyper-V.\i0\par
\strike\fs22\lang12                                                                                                                                                                                                   \strike0\f2\par
\b\fs28 SR-IOV Support = \cf6 Disabled\f0\lang1036   \cf0\b0\i (\cf3\fs22 recommended\cf0\fs28 )\cf3\f2\lang12                        \i0\f0\fs22\lang1036                                    \i\f2\fs28\lang12         \i0\f0\fs22\lang1036     \cf0\fs24 Disables Single Root I/O Virtualization (SR-IOV), a feature that allows a single physical PCIe device (typically network cards) to present multiple virtual functions for use by virtual machines. Disabling SR-IOV reduces unnecessary system overhead and potential latency if you are not running virtualized environments that require this feature. This can slightly improve system efficiency in standard desktop or gaming workloads.\par
\strike\fs22\lang12                                                                                                                                                                                                   \strike0\f2\par
\b\fs28 Spread Spectrum / Spread Spectrum Control = \cf6 Disabled\cf0\f0\lang1036   \b0\i (\cf3\fs22 recommended\cf0\fs28 )\cf3\f2\lang12                        \i0\f0\fs22\lang1036                                    \i\f2\fs28\lang12         \i0\f0\fs22\lang1036     \cf0\f2\fs24\lang12 Spread Spectrum is a feature that intentionally introduces tiny fluctuations to the system clock frequency in order to reduce electromagnetic interference (EMI). While this helps with radio interference compliance, it slightly destabilizes the clock signal from a performance standpoint. Disabling Spread Spectrum locks the clock frequency to a more consistent value, improving overclocking stability and reducing timing jitter, which benefits latency-sensitive workloads like competitive gaming and real-time audio processing.\par
\b\fs28 PCIe Spread Spectrum = \cf6 Disabled\f0\lang1036   \cf0\b0\i (\cf3\fs22 recommended\cf0\fs28 )\cf3\f2\lang12                        \i0\f0\fs22\lang1036                                    \i\f2\fs28\lang12         \i0\f0\fs22\lang1036     \cf0\f2\fs24\lang12 This setting applies the same principle to the PCI Express bus. When enabled, it introduces minor frequency modulation on the PCIe link to reduce EMI from GPUs, storage devices, and other PCIe hardware. While harmless for stock configurations, it can slightly degrade high-speed stability and increase latency. Disabling it ensures that PCIe clock signals remain steady, which can help stabilize GPUs and NVMe drives under heavy load.\fs22\par
\b\fs28 SB Clock Spread Spectrum - \cf6 Disabled\f0\lang1036   \cf0\b0\i (\cf3\fs22 recommended\cf0\fs28 )\cf3\f2\lang12                        \i0\f0\fs22\lang1036                                    \i\f2\fs28\lang12         \i0\f0\fs22\lang1036     \cf0\f2\fs24\lang12 Turns off frequency modulation on the SouthBridge clock, ensuring stable and consistent timing for SATA, USB, and other chipset-controlled devices. This helps reduce potential latency fluctuations.\par
\strike\f0\fs22                                                                                                                                                                                                   \strike0\f2\par
\b\fs28 DRAM Latency Enhance = \cf6 Enabled\f0\lang1036   \cf0\b0\i (\cf3\fs22 recommended\cf0\fs28 )\cf3\f2\lang12                        \i0\f0\fs22\lang1036                                    \i\f2\fs28\lang12         \i0\f0\fs22\lang1036     \cf0\f2\fs24\lang12 This option applies more aggressive DRAM timing profiles internally, reducing the delay between memory requests and responses. Enabling it can lead to lower overall memory latency and slightly higher memory bandwidth, which directly improves frame times and computational performance in memory-intensive workloads.\par
\strike\f0\fs22                                                                                                                                                                                                   \strike0\lang1036\par
\b\fs28 AMD Cool&Quiet Function = \cf6 Disabled \cf0\b0\fs24 (\cf3\i\fs22 recommended for gaming/low latency\cf0\i0\fs24 )\fs22                 Disables AMD\rquote s Cool&Quiet power-saving feature, which dynamically lowers CPU frequency and voltage during low load. While this reduces power consumption and heat, it can introduce small delays when returning to full performance. Disabling it keeps CPU frequencies stable, improving performance consistency and responsiveness in latency-sensitive workloads such as competitive gaming.\par
\strike\lang12                                                                                                                                                                                                   \strike0\f2\par
\b\fs28 Chipset Power Saving Features = \cf6 Disabled \f0\lang1036  \cf0\b0\i (\cf3\fs22 recommended\cf0\fs28 )\cf3\f2\lang12                        \i0\f0\fs22\lang1036                                    \i\f2\fs28\lang12         \i0\f0\fs22\lang1036     \cf0\f2\fs24\lang12 Disables all chipset-level power savings to maintain full responsiveness.\f0\lang1036  Disables all power-saving mechanisms at the chipset level, including features that dynamically reduce power to PCIe lanes, memory controllers, and other integrated components. By turning these off, the system maintains full responsiveness and consistent performance, particularly under heavy workloads or during gaming, where latency spikes from power state transitions can affect stability and frame times. This ensures the chipset operates at maximum efficiency at all times, at the cost of slightly higher power consumption.\par
\strike\fs22\lang12                                                                                                                                                                                                   \strike0\f2\par
\b\fs28 HPET (High Precision Event Timer) = \cf6 Disabled\f0\lang1036   \cf0\b0\i (\cf3\fs22 recommended\cf0\fs28 )\cf3\f2\lang12                        \i0\f0\fs22\lang1036                                    \i\f2\fs28\lang12         \i0\f0\fs22\lang1036     \cf0\f2\fs24\lang12 HPET is a hardware timer designed for high precision. However, modern CPUs have a more efficient timer called the Time Stamp Counter (TSC) that is often faster. Disabling HPET forces the OS to use TSC, which can reduce overhead in certain workloads and improve latency, though results vary depending on the system and application.\par
\strike\f0\fs22                                                                                                                                                                                                   \strike0\f2\par
\b\fs28 SoC/Uncore OC Mode = \cf6 Enabled\b0\f0\fs22\lang1036                                                                                                       \cf0\f2\fs24\lang12 The System-on-Chip (SoC) and \ldblquote Uncore\rdblquote  areas of a CPU handle tasks outside the core compute units, such as memory controllers, cache, and interconnects. Enabling SoC/Uncore overclocking allows these subsystems to operate at higher-than-stock speeds, potentially increasing memory throughput, improving cache latency, and accelerating communication between CPU cores and other components.\par
\strike\f0\fs22                                                                                                                                                                                                   \strike0\f2\par
\b\fs28 ACPI _CST C1 Declaration = \cf6 Disabled\b0\f0\fs22\lang1036                                                                                                                   \cf0\f2\fs24\lang12 This setting modifies the Advanced Configuration and Power Interface (ACPI) behavior to prevent the CPU from entering certain low-power idle states like C1. This reduces power savings but ensures the CPU is always ready to execute instructions with minimal delay, improving wake-up times.\par
\strike\f0\fs22                                                                                                                                                                                                   \strike0\f2\par
\b\fs28 Power Down Enable = \cf6 Disabled\f0\lang1036   \cf0\b0\i (\cf3\fs22 recommended\cf0\fs28 )\cf3\f2\lang12                        \i0\f0\fs22\lang1036                                    \i\f2\fs28\lang12         \i0\f0\fs22\lang1036     \cf0\f2\fs24\lang12 When enabled, this setting allows DRAM to enter deep power-down states to save energy when idle. However, waking the memory back up adds delay. Disabling Power Down keeps the DRAM always ready to respond, boosting stability and responsiveness in high-performance workloads.\par
\strike\f0\fs22                                                                                                                                                                                                   \strike0\f2\par
\b\fs28 PCIe Clock Gating = \cf6 Disabled \f0\lang1036  \cf0\b0\i (\cf3\fs22 recommended\cf0\fs28 )\cf3\f2\lang12                        \i0\f0\fs22\lang1036                                    \i\f2\fs28\lang12         \i0\f0\fs22\lang1036     \cf0\f2\fs24\lang12 Keeps PCIe clock signals active at all times, preventing power-saving delays when\f0\lang1036  \f2\lang12 devices resume activity. Reduces latency at the cost of slightly higher power draw.\par
\strike\f0\fs22                                                                                                                                                                                                   \strike0\f2\fs24\par
\b\fs28 Command Rate = \cf6 1T \f0\lang1036  \cf0\b0\i (\fs22 recommended +, but need test\fs28 )\f2\lang12                 \b\i0                            \f0\lang1036                                                                                                       \cf3\i\fs24 # recommend this to drastically reduce latency and improve performance, but you need stable memory and timings / stable RAM!\cf0\b0\i0  \cf3\b\i May cause RAM crash or instability. \cf0\b0\i0                                                                                                                            \f2\lang12 Forces the DRAM command rate to 1T (1 clock per command) instead of 2T, reducing access latency. This can improve \f0\lang1036 P\f2\lang12 erformance\f0\lang1036  and Latency\f2\lang12  but may reduce stability if the memory overclock is aggressive.\par
\strike\f0\fs22                                                                                                                                                                                                   \strike0\f2\fs24\par
\b\fs28 Gear Down Mode = \cf6 Disabled \f0\lang1036  \cf0\b0\i (\fs22 recommended +, but need test\fs28 )\f2\lang12          \i0\f0\fs22\lang1036                                     # S\cf3\b\i\fs24 ame like Command Rate, recommend to drastically reduce latency and improve performance, but you need stable memory and timings!\cf0\f2\lang12  \cf3\f0\lang1036 May cause RAM crash or instability. \cf0\i0                                                                                                                            \i\f2\lang12       \i0                           \fs28\par
\b0\fs24 Gear Down Mode simplifies DRAM command timing by reducing the command clock rate, which improves compatibility but increases latency. Disabling it maintains the full-speed command rate for lower latency, although some weaker memory modules may become unstable.\par
\strike\f0\fs22                                                                                                                                                                                                   \strike0\f2\par
\b\fs28 LCLK DPM = \cf6 Disabled                                    \b0\f0\fs22\lang1036                                                                                         \cf0\f2\fs24\lang12 LCLK Dynamic Power Management adjusts the link clock speed dynamically to save power, but frequency changes can cause latency spikes. Disabling this keeps the link clock frequency stable at all times.\par
\strike\f0\fs22                                                                                                                                                                                                   \strike0\f2\par
\b\fs28 LCLK DPM Enhanced PCIe Detection = \cf6 Disabled\f0\lang1036  \f2\lang12  \cf0\b0\i\f0\lang1036 (\cf3\fs22 recommended\cf0\fs28 )\cf3\f2\lang12                        \i0\f0\fs22\lang1036                                    \i\f2\fs28\lang12         \i0\f0\fs22\lang1036     \cf0\f2\fs24\lang12 This is an additional layer of PCIe link clock management tied to LCLK DPM. Disabling it prevents the system from attempting enhanced PCIe device detection routines that can alter clock speeds, improving consistency.\par
\strike\f0\fs22                                                                                                                                                                                                   \strike0\f2\par
\b\fs28 Fast Short REP MOVSB = \cf6 Enabled \f0\lang1036  \f2\lang12  \cf0\b0\i\f0\lang1036 (\cf3\fs22 recommended\cf0\fs28 )\cf3\f2\lang12                        \i0\f0\fs22\lang1036                                    \i\f2\fs28\lang12         \i0\f0\fs22\lang1036     \cf0\f2\fs24\lang12 REP MOVSB is a CPU instruction for moving blocks of data in memory. Enabling the \ldblquote Fast Short\rdblquote  optimization speeds up these transfers for small data blocks, improving CPU throughput in scenarios where rapid short memory copies are common.\par
\strike\f0\fs22                                                                                                                                                                                                   \strike0\f2\par
\b\fs28 Enhanced REP MOVSB/STOSB = \cf6 Enabled  \cf0\b0\i\f0\lang1036 (\cf3\fs22 recommended\cf0\fs28 )\cf3\f2\lang12                        \i0\f0\fs22\lang1036                                    \i\f2\fs28\lang12         \i0\f0\fs22\lang1036     \cf0 E\f2\fs24\lang12 xtends the optimization of REP MOVSB and STOSB instructions for both memory copying and storing, improving efficiency for workloads that involve repeated memory operations.\par
\strike\f0\fs22                                                                                                                                                                                                   \strike0\f2\par
\b\fs28 REP-MOV/STOS Streaming = \cf6 Enabled  \cf0\b0\i\f0\lang1036 (\cf3\fs22 recommended\cf0\fs28 )\cf3\f2\lang12                        \i0\f0\fs22\lang1036                                    \i\f2\fs28\lang12         \i0\f0\fs22\lang1036     \cf0\f2\fs24\lang12 Allows REP MOVSB and STOSB instructions to operate in a streaming mode, optimizing the data transfer path for high throughput.\par
\strike\f0\fs22                                                                                                                                                                                                   \strike0\f2\par
 \b\fs28 BankGroupSwap = \cf6 Disabled \f0\lang1036  \cf0\b0\i (\cf3\fs22 recommended\cf0\fs28 )\cf3\f2\lang12                        \i0\f0\fs22\lang1036                                    \i\f2\fs28\lang12         \i0\f0\fs22\lang1036     \cf0 Controls how DRAM bank groups are accessed. While enabling it can improve compatibility with some memory modules, it may introduce slight latency. Disabling Bank Group Swapping ensures a more direct access pattern, potentially improving memory performance and reducing delays.\par
\b\f2\fs28\lang12 SB Clock Spread Spectrum Option = \cf6 0.362% \cf0 / (or the lowest value)\f0\lang1036  \b0\i (\cf3\fs22 recommended\cf0\fs28 )\cf3\f2\lang12                        \i0\f0\fs22\lang1036                                    \i\f2\fs28\lang12         \i0\f0\fs22\lang1036     \cf0                                                                                         \par
\f2\fs24\lang12 Controls the spread spectrum of the SouthBridge PLL, which affects SATA, USB, and other chipset-controlled devices. Setting it to the lowest value (~0.362%) reduces clock fluctuations, helping to slightly improve system responsiveness and minimize latency in I/O operations.\par
\strike\f0\fs22                                                                                                                                                                                                   \strike0\f2\par
\b\fs28 Above 4G Decoding = \cf6 Enabled \cf0 (si GPU r\f0\'e9cent)  \b0\i\lang1036 (\cf3\fs22 recommended\cf0\fs28 )\cf3\f2\lang12                        \i0\f0\fs22\lang1036                                    \i\f2\fs28\lang12         \i0\f0\fs22\lang1036     \cf0\fs24\lang12 Enables the system to allocate more than 4 GB of address space for PCIe devices. This is essential for modern GPUs, particularly in multi-GPU setups or when using Re-Size BAR, ensuring proper memory mapping and compatibility.\par
\strike\fs22                                                                                                                                                                                                   \strike0\par
\b\fs28 Re-Size BAR Support = \cf6 Enabled  \cf0\b0\i\lang1036 (\cf3\fs22 recommended\cf0\fs28 )\cf3\f2\lang12                        \i0\f0\fs22\lang1036                                    \i\f2\fs28\lang12         \i0\f0\fs22\lang1036     \cf0\fs24\lang12 Allows the CPU to access the GPU\rquote s full VRAM in a single range instead of 256 MB chunks. This can improve performance in certain modern games by reducing overhead and increasing data throughput between CPU and GPU.\par
\strike\fs22                                                                                                                                                                                                   \strike0\par
\b\fs28 Enable Hibernation = \cf6 0  \cf0\b0\i\lang1036 (\cf3\fs22 recommended\cf0\fs28 )\cf3\f2\lang12                        \i0\f0\fs22\lang1036                                    \i\f2\fs28\lang12         \i0\f0\fs22\lang1036                   \cf7\b\i\fs28 # Needs testing: in very rare cases, this may cause system /GPU crashes.\cf0\b0\i0\fs22\lang12     \fs24 Disables operating system-level hibernation, which saves the system state to disk when the computer is put into a low-power state. Turning hibernation off prevents potential issues such as audio dropouts, delayed wake times, or driver initialization delays, providing a faster and more responsive resume experience. This is particularly beneficial for users who require immediate system responsiveness after sleep or shutdown, such as gamers or real-time application users.\par
\strike\fs22                                                                                                                                                                                                   \strike0\par
\b\fs28 PX Dynamic Mode = \cf6 Disabled  \cf0\b0\i\lang1036 (\cf3\fs22 recommended\cf0\fs28 )\cf3\f2\lang12                        \i0\f0\fs22\lang1036                                    \i\f2\fs28\lang12         \i0\f0\fs22\lang1036     \cf0\fs24\lang12 PX Dynamic Mode is a PCI Express feature that dynamically changes the allocation of PCIe lanes to different devices depending on workload demand. While useful for power saving and flexible lane usage, it can introduce switching delays or momentary instability. Disabling this feature locks lane allocation, improving overall PCIe stability and reducing latency spikes, particularly important for GPUs or NVMe drives under consistent heavy load.\par
\strike\fs22                                                                                                                                                                                                   \strike0\par
\b\fs28 PM L1 SS = \cf6 Disabled                                   \b0\fs22\lang1036                                                                                         \cf0\fs24\lang12 PCI Express L1 Substates (L1 SS) are low-power idle modes for PCIe devices that save power when the link is not actively transferring data. Exiting these states requires additional time, potentially introducing micro-latency spikes. Disabling L1 SS keeps PCIe links active and responsive, improving performance in latency-critical situations.\par
\strike\fs22                                                                                                                                                                                                   \strike0\par
\b\fs28 Unused GPP Clocks Off = \cf6 Disabled  \cf0\b0\i\lang1036 (\cf3\fs22 recommended\cf0\fs28 )\cf3\f2\lang12                        \i0\f0\fs22\lang1036                                    \i\f2\fs28\lang12         \i0\f0\fs22\lang1036     \cf0\fs24\lang12 This setting turns off the clocks to unused General Purpose PCIe Ports (GPP) to save power. However, turning clocks back on when needed adds delay. Disabling this option keeps the clocks running at all times, ensuring immediate availability of the PCIe link.\par
\strike\fs22                                                                                                                                                                                                   \strike0\par
\b\fs28 Fixed SOC Pstate = \cf6 P0                                 \b0\fs22\lang1036                                                                                         \cf0\fs24\lang12 Forces the SoC to operate at its highest performance P-state (P0), ensuring maximum interconnect and memory controller speed at all times.\par
\strike\fs22                                                                                                                                                                                                   \strike0\par
\b\fs28 PPC Adjustment = \cf6 PState 0                              \b0\fs22\lang1036                                                                                         \cf0\lang12 F\fs24 orces the CPU to report its highest performance state to the OS, ensuring max performance scheduling.\par
\strike\fs22                                                                                                                                                                                                   \strike0\par
\b\fs28 ACPI Standby State = \cf6 Suspend Disabled  \cf0\b0\i\lang1036 (\cf3\fs22 recommended\cf0\fs28 )\cf3\f2\lang12                        \i0\f0\fs22\lang1036                                    \i\f2\fs28\lang12         \i0\f0\fs22\lang1036     \cf0\fs24\lang12 Prevents the system from entering ACPI standby or suspend states. By avoiding power state transitions, this reduces latency when waking or accessing components, ensuring more consistent performance.\par
\strike\fs22                                                                                                                                                                                                   \strike0\par
\b\fs28 ASPM Support / ASPM Control for CPU / ASPM Mode Control = \cf6 Disabled  \cf0\b0\i\lang1036 (\cf3\fs22 recommended\cf0\fs28 )\cf3\f2\lang12                        \i0\f0\fs22\lang1036                                    \i\f2\fs28\lang12         \i0\f0\fs22\lang1036     \cf0\b\fs28\lang12\par
\b0\fs24 Disables Active State Power Management (ASPM) on both CPU and chipset sides for all PCIe devices. This prevents PCIe links from entering low-power states, keeping them fully active at all times. The result is reduced latency when accessing PCIe peripherals and more consistent system performance.\par
\strike\fs22                                                                                                                                                                                                   \strike0\par
\b\fs28 PCIB Clock Run = \cf6 Disabled  \cf0\b0\i\lang1036 (\cf3\fs22 recommended\cf0\fs28 )\cf3\f2\lang12                        \i0\f0\fs22\lang1036                                    \i\f2\fs28\lang12         \i0\f0\fs22\lang1036     \cf0\fs24\lang12 Prevents the PCI bus clock from stopping during idle periods. Keeping the bus continuously active ensures immediate responsiveness and slightly lower latency for PCIe communications.\par
\strike\fs22                                                                                                                                                                                                   \strike0\fs24\par
\b\fs28 USB Phy Power Down = \cf6 Disabled \cf0\b0\i\lang1036 (\cf3\fs22 recommended\cf0\fs28 )\cf3\f2\lang12                        \i0\f0\fs22\lang1036                                    \i\f2\fs28\lang12         \i0\f0\fs22\lang1036     \cf0\fs24\lang12 Disables the power-down of the USB physical layer (PHY) in S4/S5 states. Keeping the USB PHY powered ensures immediate device detection and eliminates potential delays when waking from sleep or powering on, which is beneficial for maintaining responsiveness with USB peripherals such as keyboards and mice.\par
\strike\fs22                                                                                                                                                                                                   \strike0\fs24\par
\b\fs28 SATA Slumber State Capability = \cf6 Disabled              \b0\fs22\lang1036                                                                                         \cf0\fs24\lang12 Disables SATA slumber states to keep drives responsive at all times.\par
\b\fs28 Aggressive SATA Device Sleep Port 0 = \cf6 Disabled         \b0\fs22\lang1036                                             \cf0\fs24\lang12 Prevents Port 0 SATA device from entering aggressive sleep mode, ensuring immediate readiness.\fs22\par
\b\fs28 Aggressive SATA Device Sleep Port 1 = \cf6 Disabled         \b0\fs22\lang1036                                             \cf0\fs24\lang12 Same as above, but for Port 1.\par
\strike\fs22                                                                                                                                                                                                   \strike0\par
\b\fs28 NBIO DPM Control = \cf6 Manual                             \b0\fs22\lang1036                                                                                         \cf0\fs24\lang12 Sets Northbridge I/O Dynamic Power Management to manual, keeping performance levels fixed. This avoids delays or latency spikes caused by automatic frequency scaling during data transfers.\par
\strike\fs22                                                                                                                                                                                                   \strike0\par
\b\fs28 APBDIS = \cf6 1                                             \b0\fs22\lang1036                                                                                         \cf0\fs24\lang12 Disables dynamic bus performance boosting, maintaining a constant bus latency. This ensures predictable data transfer timing between CPU, memory, and peripherals, which can slightly improve overall system responsiveness.\par
\strike\fs22                                                                                                                                                                                                   \strike0\fs24\par
\b\fs28 ACPI SRAT L3 Cache As NUMA Domain = \cf6 Enabled            \b0\fs22\lang1036                                             \cf0\fs24\lang12 Exposes each L3 cache as a separate NUMA domain for better OS-level thread/memory allocation.\par
\strike\fs22                                                                                                                                                                                                   \strike0\par
\b\fs28 AB Clock Gating = \cf6 Disabled                             \b0\fs22\lang1036                                                                                         \cf0\fs24\lang12 Disables clock gating on the internal AB bus to prevent delays from reactivating it.\par
\strike\fs22                                                                                                                                                                                                   \strike0\par
\b\fs28 TSME = \cf6 Disabled                                        \b0\fs22\lang1036                                                                                         \cf0\fs24\lang12 Disables Transparent Secure Memory Encryption for reduced memory latency.\par
\strike\fs22                                                                                                                                                                                                   \strike0\fs24\par
\b\fs28 SPD Read Optimization = \cf6 Enabled  \cf0\b0\i\lang1036 (\cf3\fs22 recommended\cf0\fs28 )\cf3\f2\lang12                        \i0\f0\fs22\lang1036                                    \i\f2\fs28\lang12         \i0\f0\fs22\lang1036     \cf0\fs24\lang12 Accelerates RAM SPD (Serial Presence Detect) reading, reducing initialization delays.\par
\strike\fs22                                                                                                                                                                                                   \strike0\par
\b\fs28 PCIe ASPM (Active State Power Management) = \cf6 Disabled  \cf0\b0\i\lang1036 (\cf3\fs22 recommended\cf0\fs28 )\cf3\f2\lang12                        \i0\f0\fs22\lang1036                                    \i\f2\fs28\lang12         \i0\f0\fs22\lang1036     \cf0\fs24\lang12 Prevents PCIe links from entering low-power states like L0s or L1. Disabling ASPM ensures the GPU, NVMe SSDs, and other PCIe devices remain fully active for instant response, avoiding wake-up latency.\par
\strike\fs22                                                                                                                                                                                                   \strike0\par
\b\fs28 LAN Power Enable = \cf6 Disabled  \cf0\b0\i\lang1036 (\cf3\fs22 recommended\cf0\fs28 )\cf3\f2\lang12                        \i0\f0\fs22\lang1036                                    \i\f2\fs28\lang12         \i0\f0\fs22\lang1036     \cf0\fs24\lang12 This setting controls whether the onboard LAN controller can be powered down during idle periods to save energy. While enabling it reduces power consumption, it may cause delays when the network interface needs to become active again. Disabling LAN Power Enable keeps the network hardware fully powered at all times, which can slightly improve ping stability and reduce packet latency in online gaming.\par
\strike\fs22                                                                                                                                                                                                   \strike0\par
\b\fs28 S3/Modern Standby Support = \cf6 Disabled  \cf0\b0\i\lang1036 (\cf3\fs22 recommended\cf0\fs28 )\cf3\f2\lang12                        \i0\f0\fs22\lang1036                                    \i\f2\fs28\lang12         \i0\f0\fs22\lang1036     \cf0\fs24\lang12 Disables modern standby and legacy S3 states to avoid latency spikes from low-power states.\par
\strike\fs22                                                                                                                                                                                                   \strike0\par
\b\fs28 Adaptive S4 = \cf6 Disabled  \cf0\b0\i\lang1036 (\cf3\fs22 recommended\cf0\fs28 )\cf3\f2\lang12                        \i0\f0\fs22\lang1036                                    \i\f2\fs28\lang12         \i0\f0\fs22\lang1036     \cf0                                             \fs24\lang12 The S4 power state is hibernation. Adaptive S4 modifies how the system enters this mode to optimize for efficiency, but can cause longer wake times. Disabling it prioritizes faster wake-up behavior, particularly useful on desktops or gaming systems where hibernation is rarely needed.\par
\strike\fs22                                                                                                                                                                                                   \par
\b\strike0\f2\fs28 Int. Clk Differential Spread = \cf6 Disabled  \cf0\b0\i\f0\lang1036 (\fs22 recommended\fs28 )\f2\lang12                 \b\i0                 \b0\fs22 Disables internal clock spread modulation, which normally slightly varies the internal clock to reduce electromagnetic interference. Turning it off ensures more consistent timing across internal buses, improving latency stability and predictability for memory and chipset operations.\par
\strike\f0                                                                                                                                                                                                   \strike0\fs24\par
\b\f2\fs28 Discrete GPU's Audio = \cf6 Disabled  \cf0\b0\i\f0\lang1036 (\fs22 recommended, only if you dont use it\fs28 )\f2\lang12                 \b\i0                          \b0\fs24 Disables the HDMI/DisplayPort audio output capability of the discrete GPU. If you don\rquote t use GPU audio, disabling it removes unnecessary audio device enumeration and processing, slightly reducing driver overhead and simplifying the Windows audio device list.\f0\fs22\par
\b\fs34 ---------------------------------------------------\par
Medium Priority \f2\endash  Moderate impact, situational benefits.\par
---------------------------------------------------\par
\fs28 Clock Power Management (CLKREQ#) = \cf6 Disabled\f0\lang1036  \f2\lang12  \cf0\b0\i\f0\lang1036 (\cf3\fs22 recommended\cf0\fs28 )\cf3\f2\lang12                        \i0\f0\fs22\lang1036                                    \i\f2\fs28\lang12         \i0\f0\fs22\lang1036     \cf0\f2\fs24\lang12 CLKREQ# is a mechanism where a PCIe device requests that the clock signal be re-enabled when it needs to operate. While efficient for saving power, it can cause momentary delays as the clock restarts. Disabling this keeps the clock signal continuously active, removing that source of latency.\par
\strike\f0\fs22                                                                                                                                                                                                   \strike0\f2\par
\b\fs28 ACP Power Gating = \cf6 Disabled  \cf0\b0\i\f0\lang1036 (\cf3\fs22 recommended\cf0\fs28 )\cf3\f2\lang12                        \i0\f0\fs22\lang1036                                    \i\f2\fs28\lang12         \i0\f0\fs22\lang1036     \cf0\f2\fs24\lang12 The Audio Co-Processor (ACP) in AMD systems handles audio-related tasks. Power gating shuts it off when not in use, saving energy but adding delay when powered back up. Disabling ACP Power Gating ensures the audio processor remains ready at all times, reducing potential latency for audio playback or processing.\par
\strike\f0\fs22                                                                                                                                                                                                   \strike0\f2\fs24\par
\b\fs28 ACP Clock Gating = \cf6 Disabled \f0\lang1036  \cf0\b0\i (\cf3\fs22 recommended\cf0\fs28 )\cf3\f2\lang12                        \i0\f0\fs22\lang1036                                    \i\f2\fs28\lang12         \i0\f0\fs22\lang1036     \cf0\f2\fs24\lang12 Similar to power gating, clock gating stops the clock signal to the ACP to save power. Disabling this keeps the clock running, ensuring the ACP responds instantly to audio-related commands.\par
\strike\f0\fs22                                                                                                                                                                                                   \strike0\f2\fs24\par
\b\fs28 SMEE = \cf6 Disabled  \cf0\b0\i\f0\lang1036 (\cf3\fs22 recommended\cf0\fs28 )\cf3\f2\lang12                        \i0\f0\fs22\lang1036                                         \i\f2\fs28\lang12         \i0\f0\fs22\lang1036               \i\f2\fs28\lang12         \i0\f0\fs22\lang1036     \cf0 S\f2\fs24\lang12 ystem Management Energy Efficiency (SMEE) introduces additional firmware-level power-saving logic. While beneficial for energy use, it can add microsecond-scale delays to certain operations. Disabling SMEE removes this overhead, which can be beneficial in high-performance computing scenarios.\par
\strike\f0\fs22                                                                                                                                                                                                   \strike0\f2\par
\b\fs28 Log Poison Data from SLINK = \cf6 Disabled                     \b0\f0\fs22\lang1036                   \i\f2\fs28\lang12         \i0\f0\fs22\lang1036                    \i\f2\fs28\lang12         \i0\f0\fs22\lang1036  \cf0\f2\fs24\lang12 Prevents logging of poisoned data over the SLINK interface, reducing overhead from error reporting.\par
\strike\f0\fs22                                                                                                                                                                                                   \strike0\f2\par
\b\fs28 ESPI Enable = \cf6 Disabled                                    \b0\f0\fs22\lang1036                   \i\f2\fs28\lang12         \i0\f0\fs22\lang1036                    \i\f2\fs28\lang12         \i0\f0\fs22\lang1036                    \i\f2\fs28\lang12         \i0\f0\fs22\lang1036  \cf0\f2\fs24\lang12 Disables the Enhanced Serial Peripheral Interface to reduce unused peripheral overhead and latency.\par
\strike\f0\fs22                                                                                                                                                                                                   \strike0\f2\par
\b\fs28 ALink RAS Support = Disabled                              \cf3\b0\f0\fs22\lang1036                   \i\f2\fs28\lang12         \i0\f0\fs22\lang1036                    \i\f2\fs28\lang12         \i0\f0\fs22\lang1036  \cf0\f2\fs24\lang12 Disables Reliability, Availability, and Serviceability features for ALink to reduce latency on chipset interconnects.\par
\strike\f0\fs22                                                                                                                                                                                                   \strike0\f2\par
\b\fs28 CPU temperature Warning Control = Disabled                \cf3\b0\f0\fs22\lang1036                   \i\f2\fs28\lang12         \i0\f0\fs22\lang1036                    \i\f2\fs28\lang12         \i0\f0\fs22\lang1036  \cf0\f2\fs24\lang12 Disables CPU temperature warning interrupts, removing potential CPU pause events.\par
\strike\f0\fs22                                                                                                                                                                                                   \strike0\f2\par
\b\fs28 Resume By PCI-E Device = 0                                \cf3\b0\f0\fs22\lang1036                   \i\f2\fs28\lang12         \i0\f0\fs22\lang1036                    \i\f2\fs28\lang12         \i0\f0\fs22\lang1036  \cf0\f2\fs24\lang12 Prevents PCIe devices from waking the system from sleep, reducing unwanted power state transitions.\cf3\f0\fs22\lang1036                   \i\f2\fs28\lang12         \i0\f0\fs22\lang1036                    \i\f2\fs28\lang12         \i0\f0\fs22\lang1036                    \i\f2\fs28\lang12         \i0\f0\fs22\lang1036                    \i\f2\fs28\lang12         \i0\f0\fs22\lang1036                    \i\f2\fs28\lang12         \i0\f0\fs22\lang1036  \par
\cf0\b\f2\fs28\lang12 Resume By Onboard Intel LAN = 0                          \cf3\b0\f0\fs22\lang1036                   \i\f2\fs28\lang12         \i0\f0\fs22\lang1036                    \i\f2\fs28\lang12         \i0\f0\fs22\lang1036  \cf0\f2\fs24\lang12 Disables wake-on-LAN from the onboard Intel NIC to reduce idle power and state complexity.\fs22\par
\b\fs28 Resume By USB Device = 0                                \cf3\b0\f0\fs22\lang1036                   \i\f2\fs28\lang12         \i0\f0\fs22\lang1036                    \i\f2\fs28\lang12         \i0\f0\fs22\lang1036                    \i\f2\fs28\lang12         \i0\f0\fs22\lang1036  \cf0\f2\fs24\lang12 Disables USB devices from waking the system, preventing latency-related wake events.\par
\strike\f0\fs22                                                                                                                                                                                                   \strike0\f2\fs24\par
\b\fs28 Resume From S3/S4/S5 By PS/2 Mouse = 0                   \cf3\b0\f0\fs22\lang1036                   \i\f2\fs28\lang12         \i0\f0\fs22\lang1036                    \i\f2\fs28\lang12         \i0\f0\fs22\lang1036  \cf0\f2\fs24\lang12 Disables PS/2 mouse wake events.\par
\b\fs28 Resume From S3/S4/S5 By PS/2 keyboard = 0                \cf3\b0\f0\fs22\lang1036                   \i\f2\fs28\lang12         \i0\f0\fs22\lang1036                    \i\f2\fs28\lang12         \i0\f0\fs22\lang1036  \cf0\f2\fs24\lang12 Disables PS/2 keyboard wake events.\par
\strike\f0\fs22                                                                                                                                                                                                   \strike0\f2\par
\b\fs28 DRAM map inversion = Enabled                              \cf3\b0\f0\fs22\lang1036                   \i\f2\fs28\lang12         \i0\f0\fs22\lang1036                    \i\f2\fs28\lang12         \i0\f0\fs22\lang1036  I\cf0\f2\fs24\lang12 nverts DRAM address mapping to optimize access patterns and potentially improve memory performance.\par
\strike\f0\fs22                                                                                                                                                                                                   \strike0\f2\par
\b\fs28 ACPI SLIT remote relative distance = Near                \cf3\b0\f0\fs22\lang1036                   \i\f2\fs28\lang12         \i0\f0\fs22\lang1036                    \i\f2\fs28\lang12         \i0\f0\fs22\lang1036  \cf0\f2\fs24\lang12 Configures NUMA node distance reporting to "Near" for reduced memory access penalties.\par
\strike\f0\fs22                                                                                                                                                                                                   \strike0\f2\par
\b\fs28 NBIO Poison Consumption = Disabled                        \cf3\b0\f0\fs22\lang1036                   \i\f2\fs28\lang12         \i0\f0\fs22\lang1036                    \i\f2\fs28\lang12         \i0\f0\fs22\lang1036  \cf0\f2\fs24\lang12 Disables the processing of \ldblquote poisoned\rdblquote  data packets by the NBIO. This prevents the CPU from handling unnecessary error data, slightly improving system responsiveness and reducing latency.\par
\strike\f0\fs22                                                                                                                                                                                                   \strike0\f2\fs24\par
\b\fs28 NBIO RAS Global Control = Manual                          \cf3\b0\f0\fs22\lang1036                   \i\f2\fs28\lang12         \i0\f0\fs22\lang1036                    \i\f2\fs28\lang12         \i0\f0\fs22\lang1036  \cf0\f2\fs24\lang12 Sets NBIO Reliability, Availability, and Serviceability (RAS) to manual mode, giving the user direct control over error handling. This minimizes automatic interventions that can introduce delays during critical operations.\par
\b\fs28 NBIO RAS Control = Disabled                              \cf3\b0\f0\fs22\lang1036                   \i\f2\fs28\lang12         \i0\f0\fs22\lang1036                    \i\f2\fs28\lang12         \i0\f0\fs22\lang1036                    \i\f2\fs28\lang12         \i0\f0\fs22\lang1036  \cf0\f2\lang12 Turns off NBIO RAS features entirely. While this reduces automatic error detection and correction, it can lower latency and improve performance in systems where reliability is already well-managed.\par
\b\fs28 NBIO SyncFlood Generation / NBIO SyncFlood Reporting = Disabled\cf3\b0\f0\fs22\lang1036                   \i\f2\fs28\lang12         \i0\f0\fs22\lang1036                    \i\f2\fs28\lang12         \i0\f0\fs22\lang1036  \cf0\f2\fs24\lang12 Prevents NBIO sync flood events from causing system stalls, improving stability and responsiveness.\par
\strike\f0\fs22                                                                                                                                                                                                   \strike0\f2\par
\b\fs28 Sata RAS Support = Disabled                               \cf3\b0\f0\fs22\lang1036                   \i\f2\fs28\lang12         \i0\f0\fs22\lang1036                    \i\f2\fs28\lang12         \i0\f0\fs22\lang1036  \cf0\f2\fs24\lang12 Disables SATA error correction and monitoring features. This can slightly improve storage performance by reducing the overhead of automatic error handling, especially in gaming or high-throughput scenarios.\par
\strike\f0\fs22                                                                                                                                                                                                   \strike0\f2\par
\b\fs28 Socket1 DevSlp0 Enable = Disabled                        \cf3\b0\f0\fs22\lang1036                   \i\f2\fs28\lang12         \i0\f0\fs22\lang1036                    \i\f2\fs28\lang12         \i0\f0\fs22\lang1036  \cf0\f2\fs24\lang12 Disables Device Sleep mode on Socket 1, Port 0 to reduce wake latency.\fs22\par
\b\fs28 Socket1 DevSlp1 Enable = Disabled                        \cf3\b0\f0\fs22\lang1036                   \i\f2\fs28\lang12         \i0\f0\fs22\lang1036                    \i\f2\fs28\lang12         \i0\f0\fs22\lang1036  \cf0\f2\fs24\lang12 Disables Device Sleep mode on Socket 1, Port 1 to reduce wake latency.\par
\strike\f0\fs22                                                                                                                                                                                                   \strike0\f2\par
\b\fs28 Periodic Directory Rinse = Disabled                      \cf3\b0\f0\fs22\lang1036                   \i\f2\fs28\lang12         \i0\f0\fs22\lang1036                    \i\f2\fs28\lang12         \i0\f0\fs22\lang1036                    \i\f2\fs28\lang12         \i0\f0\fs22\lang1036  \cf0\f2\fs24\lang12 Disables the periodic flushing of the cache directory, helping to maintain \ldblquote warm\rdblquote  cache contents. This reduces unnecessary cache invalidations, which can slightly improve memory access times and overall system responsiveness.\par
\strike\f0\fs22                                                                                                                                                                                                   \strike0\f2\par
\b\fs28 RCD Parity = Disabled                                   \cf3\b0\f0\fs22\lang1036                   \i\f2\fs28\lang12         \i0\f0\fs22\lang1036                    \i\f2\fs28\lang12         \i0\f0\fs22\lang1036                    \i\f2\fs28\lang12         \i0\f0\fs22\lang1036  \cf0\f2\fs24\lang12 Turns off parity checking on the DRAM RCD (Register Clock Driver) signal. While parity ensures data integrity, disabling it can reduce memory latency and slightly improve performance, especially in systems where stability is already reliable.\par
\strike\f0\fs22                                                                                                                                                                                                   \strike0\f2\par
\b\fs28 Freeze DF module queues on error = Disabled              \cf3\b0\f0\fs22\lang1036                   \i\f2\fs28\lang12         \i0\f0\fs22\lang1036                    \i\f2\fs28\lang12         \i0\f0\fs22\lang1036  \cf0\f2\fs24\lang12 Allows the system to continue operating despite certain recoverable Data Fabric errors instead of halting entirely.\par
\strike\f0\fs22                                                                                                                                                                                                   \strike0\f2\par
\b\fs28 Disable DF to external downstream IP SyncFloodPropagation = Sync flood disabled   \cf3\b0\f0\fs22\lang1036                   \i\f2\fs28\lang12         \i0\f0\fs22\lang1036                    \i\f2\fs28\lang12         \i0\f0\fs22\lang1036                    \i\f2\fs28\lang12         \i0\f0\fs22\lang1036                    \i\f2\fs28\lang12         \i0\f0\fs22\lang1036                    \i\f2\fs28\lang12         \i0\f0\fs22\lang1036  \cf0\f2\fs24\lang12 Prevents Data Fabric sync flood signals from propagating to external devices, reducing unnecessary stalls.\par
\strike\f0\fs22                                                                                                                                                                                                   \strike0\f2\par
\b\fs28 Disable DF sync flood propagation = Sync flood disabled   \cf3\b0\f0\fs22\lang1036                   \i\f2\fs28\lang12         \i0\f0\fs22\lang1036                    \i\f2\fs28\lang12         \i0\f0\fs22\lang1036  \cf0\f2\lang12 Stops sync flood propagation within the Data Fabric itself to avoid large-scale stalls from minor errors.\par
\strike\f0                                                                                                                                                                                                   \strike0\f2\par
\b\fs28 DMA Protection / DMAr Support = Disabled  \b0\i\f0\lang1036 (\fs22 recommended\fs28 )\f2\lang12                 \b\i0                 \b0\fs24 Disables DMA memory access protections, which are primarily designed to prevent malicious direct memory access. For gaming or typical desktop use, these protections are usually unnecessary. Disabling them can reduce PCIe latency and improve overall system responsiveness.\f0\lang1036  Beneficial for dedicated gaming systems with trusted hardware.\par
\strike\fs22\lang12                                                                                                                                                                                                   \strike0\f2\par
 \b\fs28 PSP error injection support = False                      \cf3\b0\f0\fs22\lang1036                   \i\f2\fs28\lang12         \i0\f0\fs22\lang1036                    \i\f2\fs28\lang12         \i0\f0\fs22\lang1036  \cf0\f2\fs24\lang12 Disables PSP error injection (debug-only feature) with no performance downside.\strike\f0\fs22\par
                                                                                                                                                                                                  \strike0\f2\par
 \b\fs28 LN2 Mode = Disabled  \b0\i\f0\lang1036 (\fs22 recommended\fs28 )\f2\lang12                 \b\i0                                      \cf3\b0\f0\fs22\lang1036                   \i\f2\fs28\lang12         \i0\f0\fs22\lang1036  \cf0\f2\fs24\lang12 Extreme overclocking mode \emdash  safe to leave disabled unless using liquid nitrogen cooling.\par
\strike\f0\fs22                                                                                                                                                                                                   \strike0\f2\par
\b\fs28 Win7 USB Wake Support = Disabled \f0\lang1036  \b0\i (\fs22 recommended\fs28 )\f2\lang12                 \b\i0                          \b0\fs24 Disables legacy USB wake for Windows 7, simplifying power state handling.\par
\strike\f0\fs22                                                                                                                                                                                                   \strike0\f2\par
\b\fs28 Indirect Branch Prediction Speculation = Disabled  \b0\i\f0\lang1036 (\fs22 recommended\fs28 )\f2\lang12                 \b\i0        \b0\fs24 Disables speculative branch execution for security mitigations, small performance gain in certain workloads.\par
\strike\f0\fs22                                                                                                                                                                                                   \strike0\f2\par
\b\fs28 PSS Support = Disabled \f0\lang1036  \b0\i (\fs22 recommended\fs28 )\f2\lang12                 \b\i0                                   \cf3\b0\f0\fs22\lang1036                   \i\f2\fs28\lang12         \i0\f0\fs22\lang1036  \cf0\f2\fs24\lang12 Prevents OS from changing P-states, relying solely on BIOS CPU performance settings.\par
\strike\f0\fs22                                                                                                                                                                                                   \strike0\f2\par
\b\fs28 Edpc Control = Disabled                                  \cf3\b0\f0\fs22\lang1036                   \i\f2\fs28\lang12         \i0\f0\fs22\lang1036                    \i\f2\fs28\lang12         \i0\f0\fs22\lang1036                    \i\f2\fs28\lang12         \i0\f0\fs22\lang1036  \cf0\f2\fs24\lang12 Keeps certain power domains from entering low-power states for faster responsiveness.\cf3\f0\fs22\lang1036          \par
\cf0\strike\lang12                                                                                                                                                                                                   \cf3\strike0\lang1036          \i\f2\fs28\lang12         \i0\f0\fs22\lang1036  \par
\cf0\b\f2\fs28\lang12 PCIe Ten Bit Tag Support = Disabled                       \cf3\b0\f0\fs22\lang1036                   \i\f2\fs28\lang12         \i0\f0\fs22\lang1036                    \i\f2\fs28\lang12         \i0\f0\fs22\lang1036  \cf0\f2\fs24\lang12 Disables the advanced PCIe tag feature, improving compatibility with some devices and reducing minor overhead.\par
\strike\f0\fs22                                                                                                                                                                                                   \strike0\f2\fs24\par
\b\fs28 BankGroupSwapAlt = Enabled  \b0\i\f0\lang1036 (\fs22 recommended\fs28 )\f2\lang12                 \b\i0                               \b0\fs24 Enables an alternative DRAM bank group access method, which can sometimes improve memory performance by optimizing access patterns.\fs22\par
\b\fs28 Address Hash Bank / Address Hash CS / Address Hash Rm = Disabled  \b0\fs24 Disables memory address hashing, which is used to distribute memory accesses across banks for compatibility. Turning it off can slightly reduce memory latency by allowing more direct and predictable access patterns.\par
\b\fs28 ACS Enable = Disabled                                    \cf3\b0\f0\fs22\lang1036                   \i\f2\fs28\lang12         \i0\f0\fs22\lang1036                    \i\f2\fs28\lang12         \i0\f0\fs22\lang1036                    \i\f2\fs28\lang12         \i0\f0\fs22\lang1036  \cf0\f2\fs24\lang12 Disables PCIe Access Control Services (ACS), which normally perform additional checks on PCIe transactions for security and isolation. Turning ACS off reduces unnecessary overhead, potentially improving throughput and lowering latency for standard desktop or gaming setups.\par
\b\fs28 Determinism Control = Manual and Determinism Slider = Power \b0\i                \b\i0\f0        \b0\f2\fs24 Forces consistent CPU performance by preventing automatic downclocking or throttling during light workloads. This ensures steady and predictable performance, which can benefit latency-sensitive applications such as gaming or real-time processing.\fs22\par
---------------------------------------------------\par
Lower Priority \endash  Mostly stability or niche use cases.\par
---------------------------------------------------\par
\b\fs28 IOMMU = Disabled (unless virtualization is required)\f0\lang1036   \b0\i (\fs22 recommended\fs28 )\f2\lang12   \cf3\b\f0\lang1036   \f2\lang12 must be tested, after disabling it can block you at Windows startup in rare cases and will require a bios reset.\f0\lang1036                                                          \cf0\b0\i0\f2\fs24\lang12 Disables the Input-Output Memory Management Unit to remove the address translation layer for PCIe devices, which can slightly reduce latency. Keep enabled only if using virtualization or PCIe passthrough.\fs22\par
\b\fs28 CC6 memory region encryption = Disabled                   \cf3\b0\f0\fs22\lang1036                   \i\f2\fs28\lang12         \i0\f0\fs22\lang1036                    \i\f2\fs28\lang12         \i0\f0\fs22\lang1036  \cf0\f2\fs24\lang12 Disables encryption of DRAM contents in CC6 low-power state, small performance gain but removes a security feature.\par
\b\fs28 PC Adjustment = Highest Performance / use P0 State        \cf3\b0\f0\fs22\lang1036                   \i\f2\fs28\lang12         \i0\f0\fs22\lang1036                    \i\f2\fs28\lang12         \i0\f0\fs22\lang1036  \cf0\fs24 Fo\f2\lang12 rces the CPU to remain in its highest performance state (P0), preventing any downclocking and ensuring maximum responsiveness.\fs22\par
\b\fs28 DRAM scrub time = Disabled                                \cf3\b0\f0\fs22\lang1036                   \i\f2\fs28\lang12         \i0\f0\fs22\lang1036                    \i\f2\fs28\lang12         \i0\f0\fs22\lang1036  \cf0\f2\fs24\lang12 Disables memory scrubbing that prevents soft errors, improves performance but risks undetected bit errors over time.\par
\b\fs28 Poison scrubber control = Disabled                        \cf3\b0\f0\fs22\lang1036                   \i\f2\fs28\lang12         \i0\f0\fs22\lang1036                    \i\f2\fs28\lang12         \i0\f0\fs22\lang1036  \cf0\f2\fs24\lang12 Disables clearing of known-bad memory data, risking corrupted data being used.\par
\b\fs28 Redirect scrubber control = Disabled                      \cf3\b0\f0\fs22\lang1036                   \i\f2\fs28\lang12         \i0\f0\fs22\lang1036                    \i\f2\fs28\lang12         \i0\f0\fs22\lang1036  \cf0\f2\fs24\lang12 Disables targeted memory scrubbing redirection, improving performance but reducing fault handling.\fs22\par
\b\fs28 GMI encryption control = Disabled                         \cf3\b0\f0\fs22\lang1036                   \i\f2\fs28\lang12         \i0\f0\fs22\lang1036                    \i\f2\fs28\lang12         \i0\f0\fs22\lang1036  \cf0\f2\fs24\lang12 Disables encryption of GMI interconnect traffic between dies, improving latency but reducing security.\fs22\par
\b\fs28 xGMI encryption control = Disabled                        \cf3\b0\f0\fs22\lang1036                   \i\f2\fs28\lang12         \i0\f0\fs22\lang1036                    \i\f2\fs28\lang12         \i0\f0\fs22\lang1036  \cf0\f2\fs24\lang12 Disables encryption for xGMI interconnect between CPUs, reducing security.\fs22\par
\b\fs28 Data Poisoning = Disabled                                \cf3\b0\f0\fs22\lang1036                   \i\f2\fs28\lang12         \i0\f0\fs22\lang1036                    \i\f2\fs28\lang12         \i0\f0\fs22\lang1036                    \i\f2\fs28\lang12         \i0\f0\fs22\lang1036  D\cf0\f2\fs24\lang12 isables marking of bad data in memory, maximizes performance at the cost of safety.\fs22\par
\b\fs28 DRAM Address Command Parity Retry = Disabled              \cf3\b0\f0\fs22\lang1036                   \i\f2\fs28\lang12         \i0\f0\fs22\lang1036  \cf0\f2\fs24\lang12 Disables retry on memory command/address parity errors, improving latency but risking instability if errors occur.\fs22\par
\b\fs28 Write CRC Enable = Disabled                               \cf3\b0\f0\fs22\lang1036                   \i\f2\fs28\lang12         \i0\f0\fs22\lang1036                    \i\f2\fs28\lang12         \i0\f0\fs22\lang1036  \cf0\f2\fs24\lang12 Removes CRC checks for memory writes, small latency improvement but no write integrity verification.\b\fs28\par
DRAM Write CRC Enable and Retry Limit = Disabled          \cf3\b0\f0\fs22\lang1036                   \i\f2\fs28\lang12         \i0\f0\fs22\lang1036                    \i\f2\fs28\lang12         \i0\f0\fs22\lang1036  S\cf0\f2\fs24\lang12 ame as above, but also disables retry, removing both verification and correction.\fs22\par
\b\fs28 DRAM ECC Enable / DRAM UECC Retry = Disabled    \f0\lang1036                                          \cf3\i # Safe only on very stable RAM. May cause RAM crash or instability. \cf0\b0\i0\f2\fs24\lang12 Disables ECC error correction \emdash  reduces latency but removes memory error protection\f0\lang1036 .\f2\fs22\lang12\par
---------------------------------------------------\par
# NEEDS TESTING (Recommended to do but test one by one):\par
---------------------------------------------------\par
\b\fs28 NX Mode = \cf6 Disabled\cf0  (Enable if you play Valorant or prioritize security)\b0\fs24 Disables the "No-Execute" bit protection against code injection attacks. Valorant's Vanguard anti-cheat requires NX enabled to function. Security Risk: Disabling exposes your system to buffer overflow exploits and malware injection. Performance: Negligible gains in modern systems. Recommendation: Keep enabled unless you absolutely need maximum performance and understand the security implications.\fs22\par
\b\fs28 Memory Interleaving = Channel / Die Interleaving          \cf3\b0\f0\fs22\lang1036                   \i\f2\fs28\lang12         \i0\f0\fs22\lang1036  \cf0\f2\fs24\lang12 Distributes memory addresses evenly across channels (Channel Interleaving) or dies (Die Interleaving) to improve effective memory bandwidth and lower latency. Channel Interleaving is typically best for gaming, while Die Interleaving can help on multi-die CPUs for certain workloads.\fs22\par
\b\fs28 SMT Control = Enabled / Disabled (\cf7\i\f0\lang1036 testing\cf0\i0 )\f2\lang12     \cf3\b0\f0\fs22\lang1036                \i\f2\fs28\lang12   \i0\f0\fs22\lang1036                \i\f2\fs28\lang12   \i0\f0\fs22\lang1036                \i\f2\fs28\lang12   \i0\f0\fs22\lang1036                \i\f2\fs28\lang12   \f0\lang1036   \b\fs24 Enabled \f3\u8594?\f0  Best for multi-tasking and heavily threaded workloads, as it provides the maximum number of CPU threads.\par
Disabled \f3\u8594?\f0  Can lower scheduling overhead and latency, which may result in more stable frame times in certain games.\lang1036\par
\cf0\b0\i0\f2\lang12 Simultaneous Multithreading (SMT) allows each CPU core to process two threads at once, increasing total computational throughput. Disabling it removes extra threads, which can benefit some latency-sensitive applications like specific games, but at the cost of reduced performance in tasks that rely on many threads.\f0\lang1036  so, \f2\lang12 Disable\f0\lang1036  it\f2\lang12  for Latency\f0\lang1036 ,\f2\lang12  Enable\f0\lang1036  it\f2\lang12  for FPS\f0\lang1036 .\f2\lang12   \cf3\f0\lang1036                   \i\f2\lang12         \i0\f0\lang1036                    \i\f2\lang12         \i0\f0\lang1036  \cf0\f2\lang12\par
\b\fs28 DRAM ECC Enable / DRAM UECC Retry = Disabled               \cf3\b0\f0\fs22\lang1036                   \i\f2\fs28\lang12         \i0\f0\fs22\lang1036  \cf0\f2\fs24\lang12 Disables ECC error correction and uncorrectable error retry on DRAM to reduce latency, but removes protection against memory bit errors\emdash only disable if RAM stability is proven.\fs22\par
\b\fs28 System probe filter = Disabled (Enable if you have HT/SMT on) \cf3\b0\f0\fs22\lang1036                   \i\f2\fs28\lang12         \i0\f0\fs22\lang1036  \cf0\f2\lang12 Disables hardware system probe filtering, potentially reducing micro-latencies; enable only when using SMT for stability.\par
\b\fs28 Opcache Control - Disabled                               \cf3\b0\f0\fs22\lang1036                   \i\f2\fs28\lang12         \i0\f0\fs22\lang1036                    \i\f2\fs28\lang12         \i0\f0\fs22\lang1036                    \i\f2\fs28\lang12         \i0\f0\fs22\lang1036  \cf0\f2\fs24\lang12 Rarely needed, disabling CPU instruction cache can be used for specific tests.\par
\strike\f0\fs22                                                                                                                                                                                                   \strike0\f2\par
\b\fs28 4-link xGMI max speed = 25Gbps                             \cf3\b0\f0\fs22\lang1036                   \i\f2\fs28\lang12         \i0\f0\fs22\lang1036                    \i\f2\fs28\lang12         \i0\f0\fs22\lang1036  \cf0\f2\fs24\lang12 Sets the maximum speed for 4-link xGMI interconnect to 25Gbps for higher CPU-to-CPU or CPU-to-I/O die bandwidth.\fs22\par
\b\fs28 3-link xGMI max speed = 25Gbps                             \cf3\b0\f0\fs22\lang1036                   \i\f2\fs28\lang12         \i0\f0\fs22\lang1036                    \i\f2\fs28\lang12         \i0\f0\fs22\lang1036  \cf0\f2\fs24\lang12 Same as above but for 3-link xGMI setups.\fs22\par
\b\fs28 xGMI Link Width Control = Manual                          \cf3\b0\f0\fs22\lang1036                   \i\f2\fs28\lang12         \i0\f0\fs22\lang1036                    \i\f2\fs28\lang12         \i0\f0\fs22\lang1036  \cf0\f2\fs24\lang12 Allows manual control of xGMI link width, preventing auto-scaling that could introduce latency.\fs22\par
\b\fs28 xGMI Force Link Width = 2                                  \cf3\b0\f0\fs22\lang1036                   \i\f2\fs28\lang12         \i0\f0\fs22\lang1036                    \i\f2\fs28\lang12         \i0\f0\fs22\lang1036                    \i\f2\fs28\lang12         \i0\f0\fs22\lang1036  \cf0\f2\fs24\lang12 Forces a link width of 2 for xGMI interconnects, potentially balancing bandwidth and power.\fs22\par
\b\fs28 xGMI Force Link Width Control = Force                     \cf3\b0\f0\fs22\lang1036                   \i\f2\fs28\lang12         \i0\f0\fs22\lang1036                    \i\f2\fs28\lang12         \i0\f0\fs22\lang1036  \cf0\f2\fs24\lang12 Forces the manually set link width without allowing firmware overrides.\fs22\par
\b\fs28 xGMI Max Link Width Control = Manual                       \cf3\b0\f0\fs22\lang1036                   \i\f2\fs28\lang12         \i0\f0\fs22\lang1036                    \i\f2\fs28\lang12         \i0\f0\fs22\lang1036  \cf0\f2\fs24\lang12 Allows manual control over the maximum link width for xGMI.\fs22\par
\b\fs28 xGMI Max Link Width = 1                                    \cf3\b0\f0\fs22\lang1036                   \i\f2\fs28\lang12         \i0\f0\fs22\lang1036                    \i\f2\fs28\lang12         \i0\f0\fs22\lang1036                    \i\f2\fs28\lang12         \i0\f0\fs22\lang1036  \cf0\f2\fs24\lang12 Sets the maximum link width to 1 for testing lower-latency, reduced-bandwidth scenarios.\fs22\par
\b\fs28 Socket 0 NBIO 0 Target DPM Level = 2                       \cf3\b0\f0\fs22\lang1036                   \i\f2\fs28\lang12         \i0\f0\fs22\lang1036                    \i\f2\fs28\lang12         \i0\f0\fs22\lang1036  \cf0\f2\fs24\lang12 Locks the Target Dynamic Power Management level for Socket 0 NBIO 0 at level 2 for consistent performance.\fs22\par
\b\fs28 Socket 0 NBIO 1 Target DPM Level = 2                       \cf3\b0\f0\fs22\lang1036                   \i\f2\fs28\lang12         \i0\f0\fs22\lang1036                    \i\f2\fs28\lang12         \i0\f0\fs22\lang1036  \cf0\f2\fs24\lang12 Same as above for NBIO 1.\fs22\par
\b\fs28 Socket 0 NBIO 2 Target DPM Level = 2                       \cf3\b0\f0\fs22\lang1036                   \i\f2\fs28\lang12         \i0\f0\fs22\lang1036                    \i\f2\fs28\lang12         \i0\f0\fs22\lang1036  \cf0\f2\fs24\lang12 Same as above for NBIO 2.\par
\b\fs28 Socket 0 NBIO 3 Target DPM Level = 2                       \cf3\b0\f0\fs22\lang1036                   \i\f2\fs28\lang12         \i0\f0\fs22\lang1036                    \i\f2\fs28\lang12         \i0\f0\fs22\lang1036  \cf0\f2\fs24\lang12 Same as above for NBIO 3.\fs22\par
\b\fs28 Socket 1 NBIO 0 Target DPM Level = 2                      \cf3\b0\f0\fs22\lang1036                   \i\f2\fs28\lang12         \i0\f0\fs22\lang1036                    \i\f2\fs28\lang12         \i0\f0\fs22\lang1036                    \i\f2\fs28\lang12         \i0\f0\fs22\lang1036  \cf0\f2\fs24\lang12 Same as above for Socket 1 NBIO 0.\fs22\par
\b\fs28 Socket 1 NBIO 1 Target DPM Level = 2                      \cf3\f0\lang1036                   \i\f2\fs36\lang12         \i0\f0\fs28\lang1036                    \i\f2\fs36\lang12         \i0\f0\fs28\lang1036                    \i\f2\fs36\lang12         \i0\f0\fs28\lang1036  \cf0\b0\f2\fs24\lang12 Same as above for NBIO 1.\fs22\par
\b\fs28 Socket 1 NBIO 2 Target DPM Level = 2                       \cf3\b0\f0\fs22\lang1036                   \i\f2\fs28\lang12         \i0\f0\fs22\lang1036                    \i\f2\fs28\lang12         \i0\f0\fs22\lang1036  \cf0\f2\fs24\lang12 Same as above for NBIO 2.\fs22\par
\b\fs28 Socket 1 NBIO 3 Target DPM Level = 2                       \cf3\b0\f0\fs22\lang1036                   \i\f2\fs28\lang12         \i0\f0\fs22\lang1036                    \i\f2\fs28\lang12         \i0\f0\fs22\lang1036  \cf0\f2\fs24\lang12 Same as above for NBIO 3.\par
\b\fs28 Core Watchdog Timer Enable = Disabled                     \cf3\b0\f0\fs22\lang1036                   \i\f2\fs28\lang12         \i0\f0\fs22\lang1036                    \i\f2\fs28\lang12         \i0\f0\fs22\lang1036  \cf0\f2\fs24\lang12 Disables the core watchdog timer to prevent CPU reset events triggered by hangs, removing a minimal hardware interrupt overhead.\fs22\par
\b\fs28 Maximum Payload = (The Max Value)                          \cf3\b0\f0\fs22\lang1036                   \i\f2\fs28\lang12         \i0\f0\fs22\lang1036                    \i\f2\fs28\lang12         \i0\f0\fs22\lang1036  \cf0\f2\fs24\lang12 Sets the maximum allowed PCIe payload size, increasing data transfer efficiency on PCIe links.\fs22\par
\b\fs28 Maximum Read Request = (The Max Value)                     \cf3\b0\f0\fs22\lang1036                   \i\f2\fs28\lang12         \i0\f0\fs22\lang1036                    \i\f2\fs28\lang12         \i0\f0\fs22\lang1036  S\cf0\f2\fs24\lang12 ets the maximum PCIe read request size, which can improve throughput for high-bandwidth devices like GPUs and NVMe SSDs.\fs22\par
\b\fs28 Streaming Stores Control = Disabled                        \cf3\b0\f0\fs22\lang1036                   \i\f2\fs28\lang12         \i0\f0\fs22\lang1036                    \i\f2\fs28\lang12         \i0\f0\fs22\lang1036  \cf0\f2\fs24\lang12 Disables streaming store optimizations to potentially improve latency consistency in certain workloads.\fs22\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\par
\f0\par
}
 